---
title: Reflecting on 2021
tags: reflection, business
cover_image: https://source.unsplash.com/htDhtz2GqAc/1400x900
---
The past few years have been weird for most of us, mine included. Still, I thought I’d write a few thoughts down about what 2021 was for me and what I’m considering for 2022.

## Covid Sucks

Yep. It got in the way of tons of things. Probably more troubling is how easily I found habits and routines of mine wholly changed due to quarantines or remote work.

Previous to everyone going remote, I had a pretty finely tuned routine that I miss now. Every day feels a bit more fluid and chaotic.

It’s funny, in a way, how even after a few years of dealing with the Coronavirus, I still don’t feel like I have a firm grasp on things.

## Business is Good

I started my consultancy about 1.5 years ago now. It was with one client, and I had big plans to grow quickly.

That didn’t happen.

I wanted to start my career coaching school after I had a surge in people calling me for career help, but I couldn’t get that off the ground. That is eating away at me still. At this point, I’m not sure if I should continue on that or move on to something else.

In terms of consulting business, I did eventually get new clients and conducted everything the way I had dreamed of and had stellar results.

I need to obsess about how to do more of that.

This glimpse gives me the validation that I can do this and create the life I want for my family.

## Uninspired

I don’t know how else to represent how I feel currently. There are so many things I want to do like find new clients, start another stream of income, start speaking again, and all of that.

But I’m uninspired.

I’m finding that it is hard to get that critical amount of energy to put behind any of these ideas or others. Many of the tricks that I can normally employ to get movement also aren’t effective.

My tank is empty currently, and it worries me.

In fact, writing this little post is part of me trying to jump-start things by producing some content again. In 2020 I wrote more than one article a week. I didn’t look back at what I did this year, but I’m confident it was hardly anything.

## So what?

Well, I’m not sure I have some meaningful point to offer after this article. Maybe someone else feels similarly and you know you’re not alone. I do have big crazy goals, and I know I can do it, but I’ve got to find that spark again.